Generally, the first problem to develop
in someone with type 2 diabetes
is a condition called insulin resistance.
This means that glucose—a form of sugar
can’t enter cells the way it should.
Glucose is formed from the breakdown of foods,
especially carbohydrates.
Normally, glucose attaches to cells of the pancreas,
which triggers the cells to produce
a hormone called insulin.
The insulin attaches to receptors
on the membrane of most cells in the body.
This allows the glucose to enter the cell,
to be used for fuel.
In people with insulin resistance,
the insulin can still attach normally
to the receptors on these cells.
But various mechanisms prevent
the insulin from moving the glucose into the cells
to be used for fuel.
When the glucose can’t enter cells as it should,
blood levels of glucose rise
to abnormally high levels.
This problem is called hyperglycemia.